# Reading and Excercise Reflections

### Week 2: Open Access Research 

**Readings**

This week's readings were interesting, especially the ones about open notebooks as this was the topic that I generally knew less about. Open data on the other hand is something that I have delt with quite a bit in my political science classes. Starting with the mandatory quantitative research method course where we delt with census and population data. I have also had many classes where readings were products of ATIP requests and I even had a course where an expert came in and told us about ATIP and how we can use it. In terms of history courses on the other hand I have used open data much less as I find up to date most of my history professors stick to scholarly articles for both readings and in the requirements for writing final essays. This week's readings and last weeks as well has made me realize that open data is something that can be useful to history courses.

The idea of open access research is interesting. It presents an exciting but also scary way to share and collaborate. As stated in the McDaniel reading, having open notebooks allow for errors to be spotted, for collaboration and for links and opinions to be explored before publication. This to me is exciting and can be seen as an opportunity to further enrich research and allows the for others to add to the research which could benefit the author and others who are readin the notebook. I believe that the sharing of ideas can only benefit and create stronger research. To tie this into my major, Pierre Trudeau opperated his cabinet in this sort of "open notebook" method. While he did have cabinet ministers who were in charge of certain protfolios, he treated cabinet meetings like discussion groups where ministers could share their opinions about policy. He believed that this could improve policy recommendations and also allow for collaboration between departments (which he actively encouraged). I think that the Fitzpatrick reading really highlights the advantages of using open access research and the sharing of ideas in general. I agree with her that universities need to focus on listening and engaging with what is in front of us. 

But I also agree with a lot of the annotations in the readings that this idea of open access research does have its limits and downfalls. There is this general fear of work being stolen or chnaged without the orginal authors consent, the thought of ideas being stolen and what open access means for authors that want to get published. I think that McDaniel highlights a solution with the idea of not sharing the entire notebook and letting readers know that. It would really depend on the author and what they are comfortable on sharing.

As a student, I think the idea also has positives and negatives. I like Owens idea of having linked footnotes, I really think that would be helpful. As a student or anyone doing research, looking at what sources the original author uses helps find other sources to use. But I have found that a lot of the time the sources in the footnotes are not avaible to me through the library or Google Scholar which is disapointing. While I have seen some articles linking what they use in the footnotes it is not yet an inductry standard. One of my concerns as a student on the other hand (highlighted in [this annotation](https://hyp.is/upH_XnfoEemJP6f0pIv6aQ/wcm1.web.rice.edu/open-notebook-history.html)) is to what extent as a student can I use open access research? Many professors require students to use scholarly research that is peer reviewed. So while I think that initative is good and interesting, I'm not so sure how I could actively use it in an essay for an example. 

**Exercises**

This week was way more challenging compared to last. While I had little trouble with exercise 1, exercise 2 was much more difficult. I'm not even really sure what I did. I had a couple of mishaps which I recorded in my fail log. I would not say that I was frustrated as restarting things from the top generally solved my problems, I just found it difficult as I had no idea what I was really doing (in terms of what these commands were and why). I did get the point of the last part (converting the documents) but other than that not too sure. I guess like last week I will maybe understand better once I practice more.
