# Reading and Exercise Reflections

### Week 4: Fixing Data

**Readings**

My two favourite readings this week were "Space, Nation, and the Triumph of Region: A View of the World from Houston" by Cameron Blevins and "XMLing My Way to Data Management; or, What should I do with all my old notes". I liked both of them for different reasons. The first article outlines a great way to use technology in history and the second was a cool read to show not only the authors progression over time but technology's progression over time. That reading also made me reconsider how I do future research.

The article by Cameron Blevins I thought was a really interesting way of demonstrating how technology can be used to understand and discover trends or patterns in history. I thought it was interesting how he addressed the fact that there is a gap between history/social sciences and other fields like technology. As mentioned in my annotation of that section, I am now realizing how a course similar to this could be beneficial to have in all faculties. I think it would allow for many students to bridge gaps in their interests as well as allow other students to discover new fields. I just think that every faculty could use a course that shows the benefits of technology to their field in ways that are less known or maybe even unconventional. The project itself is really cool and something that I find particularly interesting. Being able to track patterns and associations like Blevins did adds a layer of social history that many probably do not consider or really look into. Imagined communities was not a new term to me, but I had never really thought of it historically and this article (and his other one) really highlighted these connections through newspapers that created these associations and communities just based on news.

The other article by M. H. Beals was interesting for a couple of reasons. For one, seeing the history of her how/format of her transcriptions was a history of its own. I'm sure for her it was a way of watching herself grow and the same went for me as the reader. It made me think about how my style of note taking has changed over the years and the programs/techniques that I've used. Her article was also interesting because it can be read as a fail log entry, demonstrating to people why certain things worked and did not work while highlighting the good and bad of each stage. Most importantly, this article got me thinking about my own research and how I do it. Especially when she talks about how some of the work she has she has no idea what the search parameters were or what project they belonged to. When doing research in school I rarely keep track of my search parameters and if I don't finish my initial research in one day then I generally forget or repeat searches I've already done the next time I start again. I could ealisy solve this by just keeping track of what parameters I use. 

As for the prompts, I have not really done any other data cleaning before. I have created codebooks from newspapers and studied an array of them to discuss a particular historical event (the celebration of Peace Day in 1919). I know that dealing with images of newspapers directly can be tricky as older ones are generally hard to read and do not have the same layouts as today. I think being able to extract the text and search it in a text editor could have been useful for the Peace Day essay as I was looking for trends. And I'm not sure why historians do not talk more about this kind of work, maybe it's because it's new and not the dominant form of history or as mentioned plenty of times, historians seem to be "stuck in their ways" when it comes to change and do not always invite change.

**Exercises**

This week's exercises I think were equally as challenging as last week. I unfortunately did not get to do as many exercises as I wanted due to being really busy with work. But I did as many as I could with the time that I had. But I did find this week's exercises fascinating and really enjoyed being able to work with data and see things change. 

I first ran into trouble when I logged into my DH Box and it was saying that I was in `root` which I was not sure what that meant. But Dr. Graham told me it was nothing to worry about and I could do the exercises regardless. Well things were acting a little strange, the word to was not turning red like in the video so I wasn't sure if it was actually working or not and when creating a back file for the texas file it did not work. So I made a new one knowing that I was going to have to do it soon anyways and things seemed to be working there. But I retried again on my first DH Box and things began working again so I continued on there. 

I also had issues using RegExr. When practicing the code `'s/(.+\bto\b.+)/~\1/g'`, I could get it to hihgight the word to but not get the ~ in front of lines. I ended up giving up and doing it on command line and it worked perfectly. 

I did exercise 1 and 2 and had time to play around with Voyant Tools which I found really cool. I put in a bunch of the war diaries text and anaylized patterns and using a bunch of the visualization tools to see how the data can be visualized (as a visual learner I found this part the most fun). 

As an overall, this week's exercises demonstrated some important tools that historians can use to get more from data than just what is on the surface. Going beyond and being able to clean up data and find patterns in it can help create a better understanding not only of the data but of the time period or event that the data is taken from. Or it can help explain patterns or trends overtime. 
