# Reading and Exercise Reflections

### Week 3: How do we Find Data?

**Readings**

This week I primarily focused on the Causer and Wallace reading but I found that the majority of the other readings really showed me the different sides of technology. While I think in my generation most people love and think technology is great, it certainly has some down falls. One of the points that jumped out at me was an annotation made by [JeffreyC](https://hyp.is/ClagZnwJEemDt9t-Jr7bfw/discontents.com.au/seams-and-edges-dreams-of-aggregation-access-discovery-in-a-broken-world/). I had never really thought about the simplicity of the search box and list and what that means for the "searcher". I hadn't even realized that when you do a Google search, you can't see if there is any related links or words to your search. I realized that this is very much the opposite of when you do a Summons search on the Carleton Library website. That search list allows you to find related links, words, topics and much more. This allows for greater linking and creates opportunity for relationships (something the author of the article says simplistic searches leave out). Advanced search to a certain extent allows for greater control but still lacks the creativity that seems to come from a search similar to Summons. 

The reading by Causer and Wallace was really interesting. For one, it really made me want to try and find similar projects that I could be a part of. I really think it could be a cool volunteer experience. The reading as a whole I found read like a fail log, describing what happened, what worked and what went wrong. To a certain extent the project was an experiment and the reading felt like reading a lab report (not in a boring way). For me, it really brought to light what digital humanities is, how it works and potential projects that can be a part of it. The project itself was interesting but the whole process I found even more fascinating. Not everyone knows about digital humanities (including myself before starting this course) and I think highlighting this project is a good example to demonstrate what it is. The reading showed the ups and downs of this type of crowd sharing work. In general it made me think about other crowdsourcing projects like GoFundMe and Kickstarter. Crowdsourcing requires a level of promoting that is not really seen in personal or group created projects. And while some things have gone viral and the crowdsourcing proves to be a hit, we can see in this project, it took a while before it started gaining momentum and unfortunate it happened a little too late.

I found that as an overall, this week's readings had similar focal points to the goals of this course. That is failing is okay, you will learn from them and from there continue to make improvements and eventually get to the end, even if that end is not where you had originally planned.

As for the question mentioned in the textbook, I have never sat down face to face with the librarian but I have attended group sessions on how to better research and finding sources. I was an RA for a while and the professor I worked for often set up little group sessions with the librarian to help us with the research we were doing. The sessions were really useful and a lot of what I had learnt I continue to use today when researching. One of the things that the librarian had mentioned was how hard they try to make material findable and make sure that our needs as students and researchers are met. I know Carleton does have a program where you can request articles for a short loan period and that Carleton and uOttawa have a type of interchangeable library loan system. I haven't had to use either of them. I was talking about this with another professor and we mentioned how interesting it is to see in terms of books the bridge between hardcopies and the rise of online books. We both noticed that newer books are more often than not available online but there is a gap between when ebooks were coming onto the market. Between the late 90s and early 2000s we felt that there was a gap between accessible ebooks and the library having physical copies of books. In light of this week’s readings, it is obviously a challenge to make everything digital and it takes time. Just making more recent works digital is a challenge, therefore making hand written older works digital is an even greater challenge. But, based off some of the projects highlighted in the readings, there are people willing to take that challenge on!

**Exercises**
