# Reading and Exercise Reflections

**Readings**

This week's readings explored a lot of different things both new and familiar. With every passing week, things seem to be more and more connected and digitial humanities as a whole becomes more and more relevent and important. The articles really stuck out to me were the two articles by Michelle Moravec and the one about the principles of visualization. Both really made me think about how I do research and how I could improve and change things to get better results. 

Staring with Michelle Moravec, her articles made me think about search terms and how to expand them. In her case, studying gender within the history of women's sufferage, the word gender was not a word commonly used during the period she was looking at, so instead she had to look for pairs of words (women & men, female & male, etc). From those pairs, she found several other things that were worth looking into. In terms of one of the last essays I've done (I'm going to use a history one) I did have to use a similar technique to conduct my research (but I didn't really know I was doing this). The course was history of the body and my final essay was on Mohawk burial grounds and how they played a key role in the 1990 Oka Crisis. Searching for Mohawk burial practices was difficult and it took a lot of trial and error to get the information I needed and wanted. For some of it I really did try looking for patterns and relationships between words in texts to help guide my research and be able to dig deeper into the subject. I also thought her section on coding words was interesting, as word meanings can change over time. While I didn't need this tool for my last essay, I can see this being a very useful tool to organize and find patterns while researching.

The article on priciples of visualization was very interesting for many reasons. For one it made me realize that there are many kinds of visualizations that can be used in conjunction with research or to communicate research. As [annotated](https://hyp.is/d63JeIlbEemEEUc5KY_Z2g/www.themacroscope.org/?page_id=469) by Katie25, the communication aspect of visualization is a wonderful tool and resource for presenting and reffering back to information. The other interesting part is using visualization as a part of research. For one, I had never really considered using the search (Ctrl+F) to find key words as a visualization tool but it makes sense since when you do use it, it shows you all the occuences of that word or phrase and data alone can mean something. Also, as a visual learner, incorporating more visual aspects to my research makes it more interesting and more engaging. 

To answer some of the prompts, I think that if historical data went through more of these processes we could learn a lot more about the data and its relevance. I learnt a lot of historiography last semester and how the study of the writing of history can give some insight into history as well. Also visualizing and plotting this data allows researchers to find patterns that may not be noticable by just strictly reading sources. Last week's reading about newspapers in Houston and imagined geography is a good example where by just reading the newspapers one may think that there is some kind of link between Houston and New York but by plotting and doing futher research we know that realationship was simply imagined.

**Exercises**

What an array of exercises this week! While the instructions say to try 2, I quite a few more (attempted 6, completed 5). I mostly did text exercises, mainly because this is what I am going to use for my capstone exercise but also because they were the ones that I seemed to understand the best when it came to executing and the results. I also found the text ones allowed for so many different kinds of visualiztions compared to other categories. But even within the text analysis tools there were some that I liked better than others.

The topic modeling tool (exercise 2), Voyant Tools and Overview exercises were my favourite as I found they clearly presented data and allowed for many different types of visualizations. As of recently, I have been interested in historiography, therefore these text analysis offer a way for me to examine these older texts for patterns or themes. Voyant Tools and Overview option for removing stop words really made the data all that more meaningful by filtering out common words. Overview did an even better job than Voyant Tools in this case because of their choice to use a Google books feature (mentioned in my fail log).

I was not a huge fan of AntConc, I found that out of all the programs that can analyze text that I tried (4 total) I liked it the least. I personally found that its visualization wasn't anything special and it did not produce anything better than the other options. The comparing of two corpras was interesting but I found the program was difficult to navagate and just not worth that one feature.

I was also not a huge fan of exercise 7. I found that the program itself using the data we had made it hard to read. My chart I found did not easily demonstrate links as it was huge (did not line up nicely like in the video). The larger links like Texas and the United States were easy to see but once you scrolled down to less common links, you would have to follow a line a hope you don't get lost.

I also really wanted to try topic modeling in RStudio but I could not get the popup windows working. I tried opening and closing tabs and browsers, refreshing, logging in and out, trying to open them before running Rscript, trying to open them after running Rscript, but no matter what I did I couldn not get the windows to pop up and therefore I was not able to see any results (the video shows that the plots window shows a graph but since I couldn't get that tab to open I couldn't see anything). I ended up skipping it, but maybe I will try to revisit it before starting my capstone project to see if it could be useful, granted that it actually works.
